Portal 1.15.0 RNs.mdx (#870)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/portal.mdx

---

## 1.15 Release Notes

### 1.15.0 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx 2025

#### Release Highlights

In this release, we have added an integrated GraphQL Playground to the Developer Portal, upgraded the Tyk Portal to Golang 1.24, and fixed a high-priority CVE.

> For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v1.15.0) below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v1.15.0) below.
```

---

## 1.15 Release Notes

### 1.15.0 Release Notes

#### Release Date 14th November 2025

#### Release Highlights

In this release, we’ve introduced a fully integrated GraphQL Playground in the Developer Portal, upgraded the Tyk Portal to Golang 1.24 for improved security and performance, and addressed both a priority CVE and a Portal API stability issue.

For a comprehensive list of changes, please refer to the detailed [changelog](#Changelog-v1.15.0) below.

#### Breaking Changes

> There are no breaking changes in this release.
> 
> #### Known Issue
> **Documentation-Only Products**
> When viewing a documentation-only product, API specifications whose alias contains a hyphen (-) may not appear correctly in the API Specifications tab. This does not affect runtime functionality, or API Product docs in the Catalogue. We recommend not using a hyphen in the specification alias of a documentation-only product. A fix will be included in next release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Known Issue

**Documentation-Only Products**

When viewing a documentation-only product, API specifications whose alias contains a hyphen (-) may not appear correctly in the API Specifications tab. This does not affect runtime functionality, or API Product docs in the Catalogue. We recommend not using a hyphen in the specification alias of a documentation-only product. A fix will be included in next release.
```

To upgrade the Portal's theme, please follow the [upgrade instructions](/portal/customization/themes#upgrading-themes).

#### Download
- [Docker image v1.15.0](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/portal/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v1.15.0)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/portal:v1.15.0
    ```

- [The default theme package](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/portal-default-theme/releases/tag/1.15.0)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v1.15.0"></a>

##### Added

<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title={'Tyk Portal now runs on Golang 1.24'}>
The Tyk Portal has been updated to Golang 1.24, improving security by staying current with the latest Go versions.

</Accordion>

<Accordion title={'GraphQL Playground'}>
We've introduced a comprehensive GraphQL Playground experience in the Developer Portal, providing developers with a seamless way to explore, test, and interact with GraphQL APIs directly within the portal environment.

**Key Highlights:**

- **Interactive GraphQL Playground**: Developers can now explore schemas, run queries and mutations, and test API behavior without leaving the Live Portal.

> - **Schema Documentation**: Admins can upload GraphQL Schema Definition Language (SDL) files (.graphql, .graphqls, or JSON format) to provide rich documentation and enable full playground functionality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Schema Documentation**: Admins can upload GraphQL Schema Definition Language (SDL) files (.graphql, .graphqls, .gql or JSON format) to provide rich documentation and enable full playground functionality.
```

- **Documentation-Only GraphQL Products**: Create standalone GraphQL documentation products by uploading SDL files without requiring live API access, perfect for pre-release documentation or educational purposes.

This feature is available only for APIs explicitly marked as GraphQL, and does not affect existing REST API behavior.

> Learn more about GraphQL documentation and playground features in our [API Products documentation](/portal/api-products#GraphQL-Playground-in-the-Developer-Portal)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn more about managing [API products with GraphQL documentation](/portal/api-products##api-reference-documentation)
```

</Accordion>

<Accordion title={'Improved Clarity for GraphQL Server URL Field and Playground Messaging'}>
Updated the title and helper text for the GraphQL server endpoint field in the "API Product > Documentation" tab to improve clarity. The field is now labeled “GraphQL server URL” with an updated description explaining that it represents the API Gateway URL loaded into the GraphQL Playground. Additionally, the read-only banner shown in the Playground has been reworded to clearly indicate when the server URL is missing or invalid.

> </Accordion>

Reviewer 2: This is just internal change, not required in RN.

---

## 1.15 Release Notes

### 1.15.0 Release Notes

> #### Release Date xx 2025

Reviewer: TODO: Change during merge

To upgrade the Portal's theme, please follow the [upgrade instructions](/portal/customization/themes#upgrading-themes).

#### Download
- [Docker image v1.15.0](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/portal/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v1.15.0)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/portal:v1.15.0
    ```

- [The default theme package](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/portal-default-theme/releases/tag/1.15.0)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v1.15.0"></a>

##### Added

<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title={'Tyk Portal now runs on Golang 1.24'}>
The Tyk Portal has been updated to Golang 1.24, improving security by staying current with the latest Go versions.

</Accordion>

<Accordion title={'GraphQL Playground'}>
We've introduced a comprehensive GraphQL Playground experience in the Developer Portal, providing developers with a seamless way to explore, test, and interact with GraphQL APIs directly within the portal environment.

**Key Highlights:**

- **Interactive GraphQL Playground**: Developers can now explore schemas, run queries and mutations, and test API behavior without leaving the Live Portal.

> - **Enhanced Schema Documentation**: Admins can upload GraphQL Schema Definition Language (SDL) files (.graphql, .graphqls, or JSON format) to provide rich documentation and enable full playground functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Schema Documentation**: Admins can upload GraphQL Schema Definition Language (SDL) files (.graphql, .graphqls, or JSON format) to provide rich documentation and enable full playground functionality.
```

> - **Flexible Schema Loading**: The playground loads the schema information when SDL files are provided during API product configuration, ensuring developers have access to comprehensive API documentation.

Reviewer: Isn't this the same as above? This can be removed.

- **Documentation-Only GraphQL Products**: Create standalone GraphQL documentation products by uploading SDL files without requiring live API access, perfect for pre-release documentation or educational purposes.

This feature is available only for APIs explicitly marked as GraphQL, and does not affect existing REST API behavior.

Learn more about GraphQL documentation and playground features in our [API Products documentation](/portal/api-products#GraphQL-Playground-in-the-Developer-Portal)

</Accordion>

</AccordionGroup>

##### Security Fixes

<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title={'High priority CVEs fixed'}>
Fixed the following high-priority CVEs identified in the Tyk Portal, providing increased protection against security
vulnerabilities:

- <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/cve-2020-8911" target="_blank">CVE-2020-8911</a>
</Accordion>

> </AccordionGroup>

Reviewer: @JoanCamosTyk, also note the new structure for adding release note items. we no longer use `<ul></ul>` etc. The previous release includes some elements of this that need to be removed; it's an error in the migration script.

---

## 1.15 Release Notes

### 1.15.0 Release Notes

#### Release Date xx 2025

#### Release Highlights

> In this release, we’re excited to introduce a fully integrated GraphQL Playground experience in the Enterprise Developer Portal. We've also upgraded Tyk Portal to Golang 1.24 and fixed a priority CVE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release, we have added an integrated GraphQL Playground to the Developer Portal, upgraded the Tyk Portal to Golang 1.24, and fixed a high-priority CVE.
```
